[hipblaslt] TensileLite snapshot golden governance docs (#8676)
ROCm/rocm-libraries: projects/hipblaslt/tensilelite/Tensile/Tests/unit/characterization/README.md

# TensileLite characterization tests

This directory holds **characterization tests**: tests that pin down what the TensileLite Python code *does today*, so the behavior can be refactored later with confidence. They are not specification tests — they encode observed behavior, including latent bugs (which are flagged, not silently "fixed" in a test). The goal is a trustworthy net under the codegen / solution-derivation / config / toolchain-helper surface before any refactor touches it.

Companion docs in this directory:

> - **`DECISIONS.md`** — why modules are accepted below the coverage bar, which latent bugs are pinned, which mutants are accepted as equivalent, and the few departures from the add-only rule.

Reviewer: I need to take a look at decisions.md to be sure it is still relevant.

Author: Sounds good — that's on the DECISIONS.md side, nothing to change in this PR. Ping me if you'd like help reconciling it once you've had a look.

- **`_codegen/GPU-MOCK.md`** — the GPU-less (`--cpu-only`) seam that makes the client/perf and device-probe paths exercisable without a GPU, and the synthetic-perf caveat that comes with it.

> Everything you need to understand or extend the suite is in this directory. Additional background and the campaign's full per-module provenance are tracked under AIHPBLAS-3871.

Reviewer: Is it worth summarizing what is in AIHPBLAS-3871 in addition to the pointer to the ticket? That would be my preference.

Author: Done in `a0c0ef6` — replaced the bare pointer with an inline summary of what 3871 holds: per module, the archived `target.md` plan, before→after coverage, the mutation-testing outcome, and any accepted ceiling / pinned-bug rationale.

Line coverage = `(Stmts - Miss) / Stmts`.

## Snapshot / golden discipline (governance)

These `.ambr` goldens are the safety net for the TensileLite/hipBLASLt consolidation refactor. They only protect you if they change **deliberately, one reviewed diff at a time**. The cardinal rule: never blanket-regenerate.

### When a characterization test fails on your change

1. **Did you intend to change this behavior?**
   - **No →** you found a regression. The golden is doing its job — fix your code; do not touch the `.ambr` files.
   - **Yes →** update only the affected node, then review the diff:

     ```bash
     pytest <node-id> --snapshot-update
     # e.g. Tensile/Tests/unit/characterization/DataType/test_datatype_char.py::test_foo
     ```

     Read every changed line in the `.ambr` diff and explain the behavior change in your PR description. A golden diff is a reviewed behavior change, not a chore.

> 2. **Never** run a bare, suite-wide `pytest --snapshot-update`. It silently rewrites every golden and destroys the net — a green run that proves nothing. (A CI guard enforcing this is coming under AIHPBLAS-3876; don't wait for it.)

Reviewer: Another way to state this so it is hopefully very clear:

```suggestion
2. **Never** run a bare, suite-wide `pytest --snapshot-update`. It silently rewrites every golden and destroys the net. That is, one could introduce a bug, update the goldens making the tests green, pinning the bug and rendering the tests useless. A CI guard that disallows bulk updates is coming under AIHPBLAS-3876; don't wait for it.
```

Author: Applied your wording in `a0c0ef6` (reflowed to a single line to match the md convention in this file). Thanks — the bug-pinning framing is much clearer.

3. After recording, re-run the node **without** `--snapshot-update` twice — it must be byte-identical. Churn means the test isn't deterministic; fix it via the `{basename, err}` digest / canonicalization, not by re-recording.
4. For **stable archs** (gfx908/90a/942) a codegen golden change is a *signal* — treat a digest diff as a suspected compiler/codegen regression and justify it in `DECISIONS.md` (and the PR description) before committing the new golden. Newer, still-churning archs may keep a small number of compiler generations side by side.

### Legitimate bulk regeneration

A real mass update (e.g. an intended change to the snapshot format itself) is allowed, but it must be a **conscious, reviewed act**: do it in its own PR that touches nothing else, and explain why in the description. The forthcoming CI guard (AIHPBLAS-3876) will require an explicit label/marker for such PRs.

### Reviewer checklist

- [ ] Every `.ambr` change is scoped to the node(s) the PR intends to change (not a blanket regeneration), and each golden diff is explained in the PR description.

### Resources

- Project overview & snapshot governance (Confluence): _link pending publish_

> - Tracking: AIHPBLAS-3867 (Lock the net), AIHPBLAS-3875 (this policy + helper script), AIHPBLAS-3876 (CI blanket-regeneration guard).

Author: Resolved in `a0c0ef6` — the Confluence page is published and the bullet now links to it directly.
